[Music]
the Bernina Express crosses the Alps
on one of the highest railways
in Europe covering a route spanning
196 bridges, this high mountain train
must navigate its way through
snow and
ice this  famous railway line
follows a daring route offering a
spectacular panorama of the most
beautiful landscapes of the canton of
Graubünden the history of the Bernina Express
begins in
1898 the construction of this
single track line characterized by TR of its
rail lasted a dozen  years
stretching today over 170 km in the heart
of the Swiss Alps it connects the capital
of Graubünden to the Italian
[Music] border which
is the oldest
city in the Swiss Confederation
it is here that the point of
departure of the famous railway
to Italy Pat cavelti has been an
ette Lig locomotive driver for
more than 10
years the journey takes about 4
He Pavel knows all the
dangers each of my working days
has something
special here  nature is magnificent and
Var in permanent
in winter you have to anticipate all
situations the train runs on the
mountainside and it can be very dangerous
there is a risk in particular of a landslide or a
landslide after about thirty
kilometers the train passes near the
castle  Campel which marks the entrance to the
Gorges de la Chine this dark valley
once gave a lot of trouble
to the builders of the railway the
friable rock characteristic of the
made the drilling of the tunnels
particularly
difficult the first railway tracks of the
southeast of Switzerland were only
built from
1890 originally it was only to be
used for the transport of
goods the Bernina Express across the
Alboula River on the Soliss Viaduct
this imposing railway work of art
offers a  breathtaking view of the
sunny valley located 85 m below
[Music]
the quarries of the region
still provide the raw material today
for the renovation work on the
viaduct and tunnel bridges of the famous
H line is expitant of the  a DEES
quarries bridges must be
resistant to bad weather such as rain,
snow or even
hail; water must under no circumstances
infiltrate the
stone because frost would risk
premature damage
inf
frir certain rocks can be
shaped to  wish but this is not the
case with the stones of the
region of course we can use them
for many works but it is
rather they which dictate their
will it is the same throughout the canton
of
Grison here the bridges were built in
desendits
des Dang like
avalanches like these Pier we
have adapted to our
environment we recognize a good
stone by its color and also when it
is very
compact we undoubtedly find
standard Grison a few meters from this
quarry butoch cannot always
be  worked and it risks
decomposing in no
time our stones are resistant and
those who created this railway line
already knew it the Solis viaduct is one of the
first railway works in
limestone designed according to the theory of
elasticity this innovative technique
allowed the construction of slender
and
parabolic vaults it is to the famous carpenter
Richard Cory that we owe this
structure created in 1902 the viaduct is
still to this day the highest railway bridge
rtiqu the main
railway network of
Graubünden it is said in the region that
Saint-George crossed the
Alboula river on horseback to
escape his enemies
[Music]
the Bernina Express is much
less impetuous and travels with great
caution on this
section the  first train in the morning
runs on
sight the rock of the mountain is very
crumbly and it is not uncommon to
find debris on the
track stone slides are
frequent and you have to be careful
not to
derail in 2014 a Grison train
carrying  140 people were swept away
by a
landslide the Alboula line which begins
in the town of Tousis runs along the river
of the same name is listed as a
UNESCO world heritage site after a detour via Tiffen
Castel it leads the Bernina Express
towards  the city of mal de
samorit already during its construction
more than a century ago the workers
were fascinated by the beauty of the
alpine landscapes intended to
introduce travelers to the
alboula valley, both wild and
romantic but also dark and  reclusive
the construction of this railway
was a major challenge
at the time the railway engineers knew how to
master this wild valley
[Music]
the bridges used by the
Bernina Express symbolize the
rebirth of railway ingenuity
in
Switzerland with its pillars  culminating at 65
m high the recently renovated Land Vasser Viaduct
is one of the
most elegant buildings in
Graubünden [Music] during its construction the
three main pillars of the viaduct
were masoned without the slightest scaffolding
using  two
cranes 142 m long this
architectural feat in limestone
overlooks the gorges of the Land Vasseur
up to a tunnel
[Music]
over the years the breathtaking view
offered by this building has become the
pride of the canton for train lovers
the landvassur viaduct is
the true symbol of
Graubünden locomotive driver laughs he
knows the history of the railway at his
fingertips at the time the construction of the
tunnels was particularly
dangerous it was dark it was
noisy and there was  toxic gases
because of the explosions plus the space
was very
limited some workers went
to the site on foot to bring
materials a train of works was also
present on the site and at any time they were
crushed sometimes the engineers had to
Taking measurements was an
extremely dangerous task and at the time it was
said that the deaths which occurred on
construction sites were due to
negligence when after a long
day of work a worker was
run over by a train which he  had not
heard it was all his fault other
people also died
due to landslides or
landslides caused by the explosions
inside the tunnel the dangers
until
1696 the Bergunarstein gorge
blocked the passage  towards the small
village of bergun the tunnel
subsequently built and which provides access to it
is currently under
renovation marcous alch works on the
site and ensures the proper functioning
of the operations
[Music]
we installed these encores because
like the windows of the  trains can
open the passag pass sometimes with their heads
out to admire the
landscape so as a prevention they
take the B's in the
face that on the walls of the tunnel
numerous problems complicated the
task of the engineers during the
construction of the line  of alboula
to reach their end they had to
find the ideal route through this
extremely narrow valley
[Music]
in the cemetery of bergune a
commemorative stelle was inaugurated in
homage to the german engineer heinrich
perps who died trying to save
workers buried under the rubble
of a
[Music]
tunnel from bergun the train continues
its route towards preda a small town
located 416 m higher at the
upper end of the alboula valley at
the time the steepness of  the slope had
forced the engineers to compete
in inventiveness
we are going to enter this way and when we
come out the train will have climbed a few
meters the exit of the tunnel is located,
so to speak, above its
entrance the train will now take a
360 turn  from and gain
altitude to climb the
Alboula chain the train takes a tunnel called
hcoal it is built in a spiral inside
the
mountain itself so that travelers spend
as little time as possible in the
tunnels and benefit from the  maximum of the
alpine landscapes engineers have
ensured since 1900 that the train follows
a secure open-air route
in winter the snow prevents access
to the pass by road the
alboula line is therefore essential to the
survival of the entire
[Music]
region four viaducts were built
to allow the railway to
cross the valley in complete
safety these buildings
also protect the population from floods
and avalanches
[Music]
the ingenious but confusing
spiral tunnel of tsondra rises in a
spiral  the Bernina Express for the
last time on its
route but garotour
because in the darkness we quickly lose our
bearings [Music] the Alboula massif seems to have been
created for
eternity but this mountain range
is in perpetual mutation the  water,
ice and rock pressure have
already permanently damaged the
original railway structure to secure the line
another tunnel located 30 m further is under
construction the old
alboula tunnel will ultimately serve as an emergency exit
the rail workers have achieved
the impossible by allowing the Bernina
Express to travel in the high mountains
but access to this white paradise must
also take into account the fauna and
flora on this section it is not uncommon
to come across
wild animals when I drive this train I
must always expect to come across a
ser or a deer near the
tracks and particularly this season
when there is snow the big game
is looking for food
below in the
valley  so we often see
animals crossing the track
when that happens I sound a
horn to make them
jump and prevent them from being
hit by the locomotive
[Music]
every year the Compagnie des chemins
Rtician railway transports
nearly 12 million people
from
all over the world through the Graubünden. Spa guests bound for
Saintoritz appreciate the comfort of the
Bernina Express and enjoy it even in
winter. This was not always the
case at the beginning of the last century  the
Alboula line only ran in the
summer but the British tourists
then present in the region did not take long
to discover the pleasures of skiing,
thus popularizing
winter sports on the frozen lake of Saintoritz,
they also indulged in it.  at their favorite P temp
the horse races a
winter spectacle which
even today celebrities from
all over the world every year the mayor of the city
christianeni pe hid his enthusiasm
during these
epic events the English who stayed here
more than  'a century found the
time a little long and to kill the boredom
they invented
skiing the first ski race was
organized in saintmaurit on March 1,
1906 this discipline consists of skiing
while being towed by a horse launched at the
Galot we  feels wonderful
here in the heart of the mountains the
railway line built more than
100 years ago is a real miracle today
such a project would be rejected by the
protectors of nature and
heritage conservation we must pay
tribute to  all the people
who lost their lives during the
construction work but
incredible infrastructure the region owes its
development and prosperity
largely to the development of the
railway line today saintoritz is
both dependent on tourism and the
path of
iron after a stop in the famous
spa resort the train passes through
the Bernina pass to head
towards the small station of Alpe Grum
renowned for being one of the
highest lines in the Alps this railway
is also the  one of the steepest in the
world next stop morterat in
hauteangadine it is here that
researchers are carrying out a major project
intended to save the largest glacier in
Graubünden formerly the morteratch glacier
extended as far as this station but
over the  Over the last 20 years it has
retreated due to climate change.
The ambitious pilot project aims to
develop a technology
to accumulate meltwater in summer to
make snow in winter
[Music]
Glaciologist Félix Keller plans to go
even further  far and make the Mor grow
thanks to its meteorological station it
analyzes day after day the effects of the
climate on the
glacier the abnormally increased wind speed
I now control
the
solar radiation and the temperature of the snow
discover which climatic conditions
accelerate the
[Music] melting
our project is simple to
understand in the summer when it is very
hot the morterat glacier can lose
up to 1 million tonnes of ice per
day they then do very quickly and a large
quantity of water accumulates
below but if we  let's manage to
conserve the meltwater upstream, it
could then freeze again in winter,
especially when it's cold like
today, that's why we're talking
about recycling the
meltWATER to stop retreating, the glacier
should be covered with snow all the way through.
throughout the year the lack of ice has
disastrous consequences
for the
region the retreat of the glacier
currently releases a large quantity of gravel
of all
kinds these are transported by
the river during the floods and could
cause serious damage in the event of
of flooding there is also a high
risk of landslides because the region is in
constant
motion many legends are
associated with the mythical Morterat glacier
a young Vaché named Arach
not having the means to marry the daughter of a
rich farmer would have  decided to make his
fortune abroad upon his return
learning that his beloved had died
of grief he committed suicide by jumping
off a cliff since the ghost of the
young girl would scream her pain
throughout the whole valley screaming death
arach death  arach
after this stop the train continues its
ascent towards the Bernina Pass in
snow and ice
[Music]
Alpe grume is the last stage of the
Bernina Express before reaching the Val
pokiiavo and the
Italian border in winter  this place cut off from the world
is only accessible by
rail at the end of the day when the
last train leaves the station only the
sounds of the wind and the cracking of the
glacier are heard in this
lost Hamou in the early morning the first train from
Valpquavo
Salante  going up to
alpgum the few inhabitants of this so-
called remote place are impatiently waiting
to be supplied by the Bernina
Express primo Samedini is a restaurateur
he is entirely dependent on
deliveries made by rail
to keep his
inn alive the train today transports
a particularly good commodity  precious in the
high mountains of drinking water a
commodity arriving at the right time because in
this harsh winter the source of Alpe grume
is completely frozen it will be 100 francs
you have them yes it's good so we can
go there twice a week  the Bernina
Express delivers a
25,000 l water tank to this isolated station
there is going to be a storm today
yes that's what they said in the weather forecast
there will be either wind or a
storm Prim Samedini hopes  that the
weather is not going to get bad because the
violent winds could complicate the
delivery to dump the 25,000 l
of water into the innkeeper's tank
the locomotive must first go back up the
hill in reverse
time is running out the operation must  be
carried out before the next train
enters the ALP
Grum station he will get out on his own no
but he will already be able to trust the
mark after having connected their tank to
the innkeeper's tank the tramps
pour out the precious liquid
the snow and ice have buried the
source and damaged the mechanical
connection system I am totally
dependent on this railway line
if it does not deliver me water I
will only have to do my
[Music]
shops as a general rule we are
supplied in ha of mountain VI the
source of
its appent d'Ailles railway network
but this year it snowed a lot
in autumn and the source
moved with the weather this year  at
the moment it is impossible to go up there
to
repair everything the water is flowing without being able to recover it
all but we still manage to
collect enough for our activities
to repair the connection to the
source we will have to wait until the end  of
spring and the melting of the snow for
the time being the innkeeper will have to rely on
the Bernina Express for his
[Music] needs
and despite the many dangers the
railway workers like to work in the high
mountains the way back offers an
idyllic panorama of the summit  from the
pitzpu and
[Music]
glacier as for the citne wagon it takes
the opposite route towards the valley
[Music]
posquavo during the last years
primo Samedini also felt
the impact of climate change on his
small
town at the beginning when I
installed here it could be up to -
20 or even 23
degrees but recently even in winter the
temperatures no longer drop below
100 11 degrees it's
strange the train arrives
the Bernina Express also has
a wagon intended for transporting
waste so twice a week
the innkeeper can get rid of his
household waste
today the weather is not so
bad when it snows there is always
a risk of avalanche and that makes
supply more
complicated but whatever  it happens we
organize ourselves to get fresh produce at
least once a
week Grum constitutes one of the real
highlights of the trip the friendliness of the B
of the station almost made us forget leaving
we will have to brave the snow and
the
cold again already during  the commissioning of
the line snow removal was an
essential operation to cross the
Bernina Pass at the time the tramps had to
uncover all the secrets of the
snow to trigger avalanches in
complete safety
[Music]
in the 1930s, among
other things, cannons were used to fire
mortar shells and to clear the railway tracks
and sometimes
skiers were called upon to trigger avalanches.
Even today the snow removal of the
Graubünden railway tracks is an
operation  dangerous because even in the
tunnels the snow accumulates everywhere
until it invades the walls
the work of the trams is demanding
and is carried out under pressure this
snowplow must have
cleared the way before the arrival of the
next train to guarantee the  safety
on the track everything is regulated to the
millimeter
despite grueling years of the
Arab the joy of finding the ALP station
Grum has remained intact among his men
in the shadows
the innkeeper primos amedini must
today go to  the
hospicio Bernina station located just one
stop from ALP
Grum the train must pass through a pass
swept by violent winds even
leaving dry the railway line is
covered with snow in no time
located at 2253 m altitude hospicio
Bernina is the highest station in
[Music]
Graubünden, and this windy and
isolated route has always put travelers on
the Bernina line to the test
[Music]
here the winters are long and
require a lot of effort from those who
want to make  survive the small
town tirelessly the railway workers
work hard to prove what they are
capable of and ward off the danger of the
mountain in the event of a very heavy
snowfall the Rail employees are
forced to use a snow blower
the machine can regulate its speed up to  'at
20 km he depending on the thickness of
the snow and obstacles the device
evacuates the powder on the sides through
two chimneys during its use
caution is advised not to
unnecessarily cover the roads,
houses or even the slopes  skiing
[Music]
today it's Andy CRAM who is
responsible for pushing the snow off the
railway line his work days
start at 2
a.m. when it snows a lot we
are of course obliged to intervene
but the big ones  quantities of powder
are not our main
problem the route taken by Express
is very
windy and even on a beautiful
sunny day like today we
have to use the snowblower to
clear the windswept snow
the strong winds can
quickly accumulate large quantities
of snow in the same place a phenomenon
which represents a high risk
of avalanche in the 1930s the
snow removal operations were already intensely occupying the employees of the railway network up to 10
[ __ ] could thus fight by hand
against walls of  ice of more than a
meter
[Music]
high parfises the thick masses of snow
could even deform the rails of the
railway tracks
[Music]
after several hours of work the track
is finally cleared of snow and the  train can
continue its
journey shortly after Ospicio
Bernina station the train runs along Lago Bianco a
reservoir which marks the beginning of the
Livignon range nestled at 2234 m altitude the
lake owes its name to the milky UAE of the
Cambrena glacier located no  far from
[Music]
there pass the ALP Grum station the Bernina
Express must still complete around
thirty kilometers downhill
through the valposquavo before reaching
Tyrano the terminus of line C
last stage will put the brakes of the
locomotive on the street
test after a
180° turn the train offers a last
exceptional panorama of the Alpine landscapes and
begins its descent towards the spectacular
border valley [Music] a few kilometers from
Italy the Bernina Express must
take the longest section  stiff of the
RTI railway network the locomotive struggles to hide the
sometimes deafening squeak of its
brakes at first sight the valpquavo in
no way suggests the effects of
global warming
[Music]
the Alps nevertheless
greatly sympathize with avalanches,
landslides and melting  of permafrost
are all threats that the population
cannot take lightly
[Music]
Diego btiliani is a forestry engineer
he is responsible for preserving and
maintaining the trees of Val
posquavo the forest protects us both
from avalanches of  rockfall,
landslides and even
erosion it is an ecosystem essential
to the survival of our valley
without the trees everything would disappear it
would be impossible to guarantee
safety on the
railway today we have the big ones  trees
that are too close to the
track because in the event of a storm or
snowfall they could fall and damage
the entire railway network.
Forest maintenance has
recently become a difficult task. Strong winds are
increasingly causing more damage and
endanger this fragile balance
[Music]
covered with snow that we see
in the distance must be in the 40
hectares it represents approximately 12000 m C
of
wood the forest has been damaged in this place
and it can therefore no longer protect us
as
before  we will have to wait years for
the trees to grow back and for it to
regain its
[Music]
balance for the moment no one knows
if the storms will intensify in
the coming years the
weather conditions continue to
deteriorate it risks not only
have a negative impact on the
railway but also on the lives of
local residents who are accustomed to extreme conditions
[Music]
the Bru circular viaduct is
the last railway infrastructure
on the line the building erected in the form
of a
360° spiral is also  considered the highlight
of the trip covered with granite veneer,
a rock typical of Graubünden, this
work of art and the most
original construction of the network of railways
retiqu
[Music]
bruzio is the last Swiss village
before the
Italian border  after 4 hours of travel
through the Alboula valley and the
Bernina massif, one of the
most legendary trains in Europe is
finally preparing to connect the
Swiss Confederation to the
transalpine peninsula for the last kilometers
of the journey.  Bernina Express takes on the
appearance of Tramoy until its terminus,
the railway line listed as a
UNESCO world heritage site will have
proven the audacity and know-how of
its
builders today more than
ever traveling on one  of these
mythical benches remains the best
way to discover the spectacular
beauties of the Alps
[Music]